Kasten 8.0 FLR Blog Post (#26)
kastendevhub/kastendevhub.github.io: _posts/2025-05-22-8.0-FLR.md

Our files, often stored on a file system, are important - one could argue its one of the fundamental functions of computing.  And with the introduction and rapid adoption of KubeVirt in Kubernetes, we are seeing more files, more data, and more "statefulness" stored in our clusters.  And while files are great, mistakes can happen. Maybe we accidentally delete one or more of our files, maybe an evil villain gets ahold of our files and encrypts them, demanding a ransom to unlock our files (often, but not always in the payment of rare Pokemon cards, or alternatively, pogs).  Or perhaps we accidentally make a change in a file that we'd like to revert.

Fortunately, there's a whole suite of solutions that provide data protection for ensuring our data can be recovered, restored, or reverted when necessary.  Although when we start limiting our scope to solutions that can do that for KubeVirt VMs _and_ containers, there are fewer viable options from which we can select. Narrow it down even further to a solution that allows File-level Recovery (FLR) rather than a full disk or VM restore, and we're down to a very small handful at most.

> And why do we care? What's wrong with just doing a full restore to get my files back? While that will work and for small containerized workloads with relatively small disks for a relatively small number of files — that is in fact what many do for containerized applications — it's not well suited for larger workloads.  But when we consider larger disks with many files, such as is the case for VM workloads, doing a full restore to recover one or several files is an expensive operation. It's expensive in terms of time, in terms of resources, and potentially in terms of dollars (i.e. public cloud egress prices). 

Reviewer: I had to read this a couple times. I think because it goes from Disk to Files I wasnt following.

doing a full restore to recover one or several files is an expensive operation. It's expensive in terms of time, in terms of resources, and potentially in terms of dollars (i.e. public cloud egress prices). 

I think mentioning Disk again helps clarify what the full restore is. 

restoring an entire disk just to recover a few files can be highly inefficient. This process consumes significant time and system resources and may also incur financial costs, especially in cloud environments where data retrieval (egress) fees apply.

> Consider the scenario where we have accidentally permanently deleted our favorite cat picture from our VM, which we happen to be running in OpenShift Virtualization or SUSE Virtualization. We _REALLY_ like that cat picture, as it keeps us motivated when we're feeling blue and the system just seems to run better when the desktop background is set to it. We could request our administrator (or perhaps via self-service) to perform a full recovery of our VM to a state before our picture was deleted. But as it so happens, our VM's disk holds more than just our single cat picture - it has things like a boot loader, an Operating System kernel, system files, applications, and perhaps terabytes of saved cat videos. Doing a full restore of our entire disk could take minutes, or depending on where we're recovering from, hours.  And consider that not having the ability to recover our cat photo quickly could be devastating for our business (okay, maybe the metaphor got a little lost there at the end, but you get the idea). Suddenly, having File Level Recovery (FLR) becomes _very_ imporant.

Reviewer: Might hit harder if it wasnt a cat picture :) but I like the jokes

Also saying minutes doesnt seem that bad, maybe just leave it with hours.

> Fortunately (and you perhaps may have seen this coming), Veeam Kasten can do exactly that, as part of our [Kasten 8.0 release](https://www.veeam.com/blog/kasten-v8-kubernetes-data-resilience.html) this week. Previously, we could only do this when using the vSphere CSI driver, but that requirement has since been eliminated, allowing any block mode CSI storage to send backups to VBR.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Fortunately (and you perhaps may have seen this coming), this week's [Veeam Kasten 8.0 release](https://www.veeam.com/blog/kasten-v8-kubernetes-data-resilience.html) can do exactly that, as part of the expanded support for exporting to from Kasten to VBR. Previously this was only supported when using the vSphere CSI driver, but Kasten 8.0 now allows any block-mode capable CSI provisioner to send backups to VBR.
```

{: .alert-info }

> While the author of that blog above is listed as my manager, Gaurav (and he in fact wrote most of it), myself and a few other fellow architects also contributed some sections. I'd say go see if you can figure out which section(s) are mine, but because its an official Veeam blog, I can't employ the same personalization and witty banter in my writing as I otherwise do on this unofficial blog.

Reviewer: Lost me here is this just for us or the reader?

Reviewer 2: Same - banter assumes they're going to click through, which is unlikely. I'd reluctantly drop this one :-(

> Let's have a look at how we can leverage our existing backup infrastructure and tooling for our legacy VM workloads to help us recover our cat pictures stored on our KubeVirt VM quickly.

Reviewer: Why legacy

# What Does This Look Like?

To start, we need to ensure we have a few components deployed:

1. An OpenShift Virtualization or SUSE Virtualization cluster deployed

> 2. Veeam Kasten installed on it

Reviewer: on the cluster - instead of it

> 2. Veeam Kasten installed on it

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Veeam Kasten 8.0 or later deployed to the cluster
```

3. A Veeam Backup and Replication server deployed either virtually or on a physical host with a Backup Repository configured

> 4. An S3-compatible object store or NFS reachable by Kasten to store VM Metadata

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
4. An separate object store or NFS location profile to store Kubernetes metadata
```

![High-Level Architecture for Veeam Kasten and Veeam Backup & Replication](/images/posts/2025-05-22-8.0-FLR/8.0HLArch.png)

# Enough Already, Let's See It!

Hopping into the Veeam Kasten web interface, the first thing you may notice is our new Virtual Machines dashboard:

![Virtual Machine Dashboard](/images/posts/2025-05-22-8.0-FLR/8.0_vm.png)

> This new dashboard enumerates all VMs deployed on our cluster and their status. We can also enable VM Guest Freeze, allowing Kasten to leverage qemu-guest-agent (if installed) to stun the VM during backup.

Reviewer: VM Freeze Guest to match the UI
